# .vimrc Explained

## Explaining the starter .vimrc

In the [Intro to Vim](../), we created a .vimrc file that contained the following lines:

{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="~/.vimrc" %}
```text
set backspace=indent,eol,start
set number
syntax on
set autoindent
set cindent
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

Here's what each of those lines mean:

### `set backspace=indent,eol,start`

This setting changes what the backspace key does in "insert" mode.

* `indent` - This option lets you delete indentation while in "insert" mode
* `eol` - This option lets you delete new line characters while in "insert" mode.
* `start` - This option lets you delete text that was in the file before you entered "insert" mode. Without this option, "insert" mode can only be used for inserting text, not for deleting or changing text.

Some vim users prefer to disable some of these options since there are vim shortcuts that do the same thing in "normal" mode. For beginners, however, it helps to make insert mode function more similar to a traditional text editor.

### `set number`

This makes vim display line numbers to the left of each line in the file. This option is super useful for debugging, where the compiler might tell you which line an error occurred.

### `syntax on`

This enables syntax highlighting within vim. Vim decides which highlighting to use based on the file name, so if you open vim without a file name, you won't see any highlighting until you save the file.

### `set autoindent`

This setting makes vim automatically add indentation when you go to a new line.

### `set cindent`

This setting improves how autoindent behaves for C++ code.

